Inversion of the verb before the subject is a common phenomenon in English sentences. The natural order of English sentences is (subject + verb + . . . .) but sometimes it becomes (verb + subject). Inversion is most common with question form of the sentences. However, there are few other circumstances where inversion of subject and verb occurs.

Inversion in questions:
Almost all forms of interrogative sentences (without subject questions and embedded questions) use inversion. These sentences always place the auxiliary verb before the subject.

Example:

Is he going to the club?
Did he go to the club?
Where is the club?
Who is that guy standing there? (No inversion for it is a subject question)
Inversion in other expressions:
Many other negative and affirmative sentences use inversion.

1. Affirmative and negative agreement: only after so, nor, neither but not in the cases of either and too. 

Examples:

Alex went to the club, and so did
Alex went to the club, and Jenny did too. (No inversion)
Robert hasn’t reached yet, neither has
Robert hasn’t reached yet; Robin hasn’t either. (No inversion)
Russel is not a footballer, and nor is
2. Negative adverbial expressions at the beginning of the sentence.

Example:

In no way should we accept their offer.
Little did they know about me.
Never has he felt so embarrassed.
Seldom do they go
Rarely do we see gypsies.
Hardly ever do they talk to each other.
3. Beginning with only & not only.

Example:

Only if they come would I go
Only by researching can you solve this problem.
Only after lunch can you play.
Not only did they kill the adults, but they killed also the children.
 

4. Adverbials at the beginning of a sentence.

Example:

Hardly had I reached there, he left.
Seldom does the teacher finishes his class early.
Rarely does Alex forget to do his
5. Adverbs of place (here & there) at the beginning of a sentence. This type of sentence requires the main verb (not the auxiliary verb) to come before the subject.

Example:

There is a lady standing in front of the club.
Here comes the king.
Here is your home-made cola.
There are so many people in that field.
 6. Some prepositional phrases at the beginning of a sentence.

Example:

Into the room came she when I was sleeping.
Behind me cries a child.
Over the table hangs a painting.
7. Conditionals without the conjunction

Example:

Had he been there, he could have seen it.
Were I the president, I could do the good things.
Were he my brother, I would support him to reach his dreams.
Should you go there, I will go with you.