Phrase and clause are the most important elements of English grammar. Phrase and clause cover everything a sentence has. Clauses are the center of sentences and phrases strengthen the sentences to become meaningful. If the clauses are the pillars of a building, the phrases are the bricks. A phrase usually is always present within a clause, but a phrase cannot have a clause in it.

 The basic difference between a clause and a phrase is that a clause must have a finite verb and a phrase must not.

A phrase, therefore, is a group of words which has no finite verb in it and acts to complete the sentence for making it meaningful.

“A phrase is a small group of words that form a meaningful unit within a clause.” -Oxford Dictionary
“In linguistic analysis, a phrase is a group of words (or possibly a single word) that functions as a constituent in the syntax of a sentence, a single unit within agrammatical hierarchy.” - Osborne, Timothy, Michael Putnam, and Thomas Gross (2011)
Types of Phrases
The phrases are generally of six types.

Noun Phrase
Adjective Phrase
Adverbial Phrase
Prepositional Phrase
Conjunctional Phrase
Interjectional Phrase
Noun Phrase
A noun phrase is usually assembled centering a single noun and works as a subject, an object or a complement in the sentence.

Example:
I like to swing the bat hard when I am at the crease. (An object)
Reading novels is a good habit. (A subject)
The probability of happening that match is not much. (A subject)
We are sorry for her departure.
Adjective Phrase
An adjective phrase is comprised of an adjective and works as a single adjective in the sentence.

Example:
Alex is a well-behaved man.
He is a man of friendly nature.
Julie is a woman of gorgeous style.
She leads a very interesting life.
A lot of people do not sleep at night.
Adverbial Phrase
An adverbial phrase modifies the verb or the adjective and works as an adverb in the sentence.

Example:
The horse runs at a good speed.
I was in a hurry then.
I ran as fast as possible.
He works very slowly.
Prepositional Phrase
A prepositional phrase always begins with a preposition and connects nouns.
